Welcome back.
Let's finish off this section of a simple project exercise for this project you'll create a very simple
username requirements check Web site.
Basically a user is going to type out a user name into a form hit submit and then the flask application
is going to grab that user name in the backend and it's good check to see if the user name passes through
your requirements.
So just like in our earlier example where we grab the first name and last name of the people that wanted
to audition for that puppy rock band.
We didn't actually do any checks on them so we just sent them to another thank you page where you're
going to do now is grab the username do a little bit of check on it and then provide some more information
to the report page.
So the requirements here for the username that the user actually enters into the form is that the user
name must contain a lowercase letter.
It must contain an uppercase letter and it must end in a number.
There are essentially a infinite number of ways you could check this with Python.
So it's really up to you how you check these requirements inside your py file.
But these are the pharmacy are going to have to check for with the user name is provided in that form.
So if you grab that username in the form you're going to have some Python code logic that checks to
see if these conditions are met and then you can have three template to files.
One is a base HTL file that has a nav bar of Home link.
The second is your index page which is essentially just going to have the simple form that redirects
to a report page upon hitting submit that username and then the report page is going to indicate whether
or not the username passed requirements.
So let's go ahead and see what this page would look like in action.
All right so this is what the web application should look like.
Notice here I have a nav bar.
That's coming from that base h him Al file and I have a little bit of information here welcome to the
puppy user name check.
Let's see if your username is secure and I ask you to fill out the form below a fuse name that has these
three restraints has to have an uppercase letter somewhere.
A lower case letters somewhere and then it must have a number at the end.
So here you have a very simple form which is labeled username and LOYN to enter a user name.
Let's provide one that we know is going to pass.
So I'll start with capital E will say Eddie one then we get to the report page where it says Let's see
how you perform.
And it looks like the user name did pass the three requirements which makes sense because we had a capital
letter and then a number at the end of some lower case letters as well.
Let's go back to home page.
And now let's do one that we know is not going to pass.
So if I just say rufous and all lowercase are going to hit submit and it says oh looks like you have
some issues of your username so I didn't have an uppercase character and I did not enter a username
with a number.
So inside of your template you're going to have some bits of logic to report back whether or not you
had a success.
And you also want to report back what failures there were so notice here.
It might make sense to pass in a bunch of conditioned checks and then use that template control flow
in order to print out what worked and what didn't work.
As far as the requirements go we're essentially combining everything we just talked about here in your
templates lectures to actually finish off this project.
Now as far as approaching this project if you're feeling a little more ambitious go ahead and just go
for it.
Try it if you can do it on your own completely.
If you want a little bit of guidance we have some skeleton code available for you inside of our templates
folder.
And if you are feeling a little uneasy with combining all these steps that's absolutely no problem but
you can do is head on over to the next lecture and treat it as a code along solution lecture.
Really it's up to you whatever approach you feel more comfortable with and another approach you can
do is watch the solutions lecture and then see if you can do it all on your own.
That's another great approach for people who are learning and just starting out a flask.
All right.
Best of luck on this project exercise.
We'll see you in the next lecture where we start going over the solutions.